README.md, before:

# Secure Laravel app as a Docker container

## Laravel setup include
- Admin Authentication  
- Admin Panel  
- User Authentication  
- API versioning (eg: api/v1)  
- API authentication using Sanctum  
- VSCODE settings for Xdebug

### For SSL you need to generate certificate files
Certificate files should be inside `docker/apache/ssl` folder.


## Setup LAMP environment using Docker
Custom docker images for PHP/MySQL Applications  
- apache  
- php (8.0.3) / (7.4)  
- mysql (8.0.23) / (5.7)  


### Build custom images

Go inside `docker` folder
```
cd docker
```

Execute these commands to build images  

For PHP 7.4 and MySQL 5.7 
```
$ docker image build --no-cache -f php74.Dockerfile -t php74-apache-ssl-dev .
$ docker image build --no-cache -f mysql57.Dockerfile -t mysql57-dev .
```

For PHP 8.0 and MySQL 8.0
```
$ docker image build --no-cache -f php803.Dockerfile -t php803-apache-ssl-dev .
$ docker image build --no-cache -f mysql8.Dockerfile -t mysql8-dev .
```

### Config all settings for `docker-compose.yml`
Copy `.env.example` file in the root folder to `.env`  
Change settings in `.env` for as required

### Start/Stop all services in containers:

Move out of `docker` directory
```
cd ..
```

Execute the following command to Start
```
$ docker-compose up -d 
```

Execute the following command to Stop
```
$ docker-compose down
```

### Run composer inside php service
```
docker-compose exec php composer --version
```

### Run php artisan inside php service
```
docker-compose exec php php artisan env
```

### Run npm commands inside npm service
```
docker-compose run --rm npm npm install
docker-compose run --rm npm npm run dev
```

### To browse website
Add following entry in `/etc/hosts` file 
```
127.0.0.1       website.local
```
For HTTP access use `http://website.local:8080`  
For HTTPS access use `https://website.local:8443`  
For HTTP access use `https://website.local:8080/admin`  
For HTTPS access use `https://website.local:8443/admin`  
For PhpMyAdmin access use `https://website.local:8081`  


### VSCODE Xdebug Config settings
```
{
    "name": "Listen for XDebug on Docker",
    "type": "php",
    "request": "launch",
    "port": 9000,
    "log": true,
    "externalConsole": false,
    "stopOnEntry": false,
    "pathMappings": {
        "/var/www": "${workspaceFolder}/src"
    },
}
```

Commit message:

Updated README.md for php/mysql version upgrade

README.md, after:

# Secure Laravel app as a Docker container

## Laravel setup include
- Admin Authentication  
- Admin Panel  
- User Authentication  
- API versioning (eg: api/v1)  
- API authentication using Sanctum  
- VSCODE settings for Xdebug

### For SSL you need to generate certificate files
Certificate files should be inside `docker/apache/ssl` folder.


## Setup LAMP environment using Docker
Custom docker images for PHP/MySQL Applications  
- apache  
- php (8.0.3) / (7.4)  
- mysql (8.0.23) / (5.7)  


### Build custom images

Go inside `docker` folder
```
cd docker
```

Execute these commands to build images  

For PHP 7.4 and MySQL 5.7 
```
$ docker image build --no-cache -f php74.Dockerfile -t php74-apache-ssl-dev .
$ docker image build --no-cache -f mysql57.Dockerfile -t mysql57-dev .
```

For PHP 8.0 and MySQL 8.0
```
$ docker image build --no-cache -f php803.Dockerfile -t php803-apache-ssl-dev .
$ docker image build --no-cache -f mysql8.Dockerfile -t mysql8-dev .
```

### Config all settings for `docker-compose.yml`

Move out of `docker` directory
```
cd ..
```

Copy `.env.example` file in the root folder to `.env`

Change settings in `.env` for as required

Make changes to php and mysql images in `docker-compose.yml` for required version.  

### Start/Stop all services in containers:

Execute the following command to Start
```
$ docker-compose up -d 
```

Execute the following command to Stop
```
$ docker-compose down
```

### Run composer inside php service
```
docker-compose exec php composer --version
```

### Run php artisan inside php service
```
docker-compose exec php php artisan env
```

### Run npm commands inside npm service
```
docker-compose run --rm npm npm install
docker-compose run --rm npm npm run dev
```

### To browse website
Add following entry in `/etc/hosts` file 
```
127.0.0.1       website.local
```
For HTTP access use `http://website.local:8080`  
For HTTPS access use `https://website.local:8443`  
For HTTP access use `https://website.local:8080/admin`  
For HTTPS access use `https://website.local:8443/admin`  
For PhpMyAdmin access use `https://website.local:8081`  


### VSCODE Xdebug Config settings
```
{
    "name": "Listen for XDebug on Docker",
    "type": "php",
    "request": "launch",
    "port": 9000,
    "log": true,
    "externalConsole": false,
    "stopOnEntry": false,
    "pathMappings": {
        "/var/www": "${workspaceFolder}/src"
    },
}
```
